Welcome back you delightful God people in this video.
We're going to make our first NPC.
We don't make a security camera.
What do we need.
The security camera.
Well the good news is this is the most basic form of NBC going to have because it's going to have no
movement code no navigation no pathfinding nothing like that.
It's just got to sit there and rotate left and right slowly.
Great.
This is going to allow us to detect player.
Now we're not going to set up player detection in this video.
It's going to come later.
We're going to do now is set the stage for when we get things ready.
So let's do that before we get into it.
Can I make this a little bit easier to use so I'm going to go to canvas modulate and make it invisible
still there.
I've just toggled visibility second thing and I really want the character node in here some scanner.
Right click on that and go delete node.
We still have it in our folders it's still difficult scenes and characters.
There it is.
It's just not in the scenery.
Then I'm going to open the pliocene and I'm going to move the torch from it because a player isn't actually
going to have a torch.
Let's make sure that doesn't crash anything.
So now into the play a script.
And I'm going to remove everything we did with the torch.
She's going to delete that.
If you'd rather not delete it you could comment that out so show what that looks like.
Everything is controlled.
K on ABC that just has to comment.
But I don't need this and we didn't do enough for me to really worry about it.
Let's just delete it for now.
Save that and go back to to leave you.
And we now have a player in a big empty warehouse.
Awesome.
Let's make a security camera.
Security camera is going to be a new scene now we could do what we did with player in character and
just have the body that's going to be there as the root.
However let's take a moment to think about what the camera's going to look like.
I'm picturing one of these cameras here.
We have this lens here that can see the player.
It's going to rotate left and right like this these cameras.
Have a little arm thing that they pivot on.
So here's the pivot and it rotates around this access and it attaches to the wall and here slot player.
And he's very sneaky.
Very sneaky player.
And you know what.
It's probably.
So here's Bob and he's sneaking around the place.
Good job Bob.
Bob you seem to have developed a body.
It's fine when trying to make here is if the camera is the root here.
So let's say I make an area to see for example and I set this to rotate left and right.
That rotation is going to be relative to its parent.
So if I put an area to D and then the arm and the rest of the sprite's here they're all going to rotate
and their position rotation is going to be relative to the parent which is going to be the level that's
going to cause all kinds of bugs.
So I'm not going to do that and delete this node and instead I'm going to make a No 2 D is my parent
node.
This security camera
I'm not going to put a space on it.
Great.
There's my security camera out.
Okay let's put in the arm.
This is going to be a Sprite and I'm going to go into graphics and underpin G and tiles you'll find
a bunch of tiles.
And one would do and they use this one tile 463.
This is actually going to be our door Sprite but a repurposed sollis drag that over there that's going
to be kind of chunky That's roughly the same size.
The player isn't.
So let's make that small on a transform let's do point to five point five that looks pretty good for
now we can always tweak it later.
Save that under scenes.
Great.
What needs to happen.
Well we need a brand new body let's do for now an area to day say for now because this is going to change
later.
But to show you why let's make the mistake first.
And this is going to be a direct child of security camera not of Sprint vehicle.
This camera body.
Camera body is going to need a sprite.
Give that a sprite.
And I going to repurpose this old school CRT monitor this cathode ray tube monitor it cos if I rotate
that and transform this or take you and make it agrees and then scale it up point twenty five point
seven five point five.
And let's just move you.
At stancil a good case of point seven five on the y axis.
No.
Oh it's rotated.
I'm not thinking the rotations try to on point five on the y.
It's 75 on the X point five on the X.
That looks like a camera.
Look at that.
We have a security camera.
I want to do is this arm is too far out so I'm just going to make that smaller.
So on the x axis Let's make you point three and it's movie that way.
So you're going move minus five pixels.
The reason I'm doing this is when this rotates.
I don't want the arm peeking out from the camera.
Okay.
That looks like a security camera.
Let's make sure.
Save it.
Come in here.
And another one let's instance it.
So we have scenes up here that security camera somewhere else this move that before we go any further.
So where you on under scenes.
Technically you're a camera.
On a right click and move to scenes characters a character camera is one of the mpac characters.
As instance you in character security camera great ups make sure I move the right thing go and just
to make sure that works for guys to move on.
Let's put you here.
We have a security camera right now it's peeking over the wall.
That's an easy enough fix will do that a little later.
First let's give it the beam of light.
The beam of light is what we're going to use to one see the player and to give the player feedback.
This is where you are seeing stealth games work when players have more information than they would normally
have so you can see lines of sight.
That's how I do it.
To do that I'm going for instance in the torch.
So click on camera body instance in your torture scene or flashlight depending on what you called it.
I'm calling it torch a couple things if I press save and go back in you'll see this light is way too
big and it's coming from over here.
Well wait how big is an easy fix called torch and on texture ask not touch a scale on transform.
There it is.
We want to set the scale down by half.
Now look good as find out that looks a lot more reasonable.
Now let's move at such a move the whole torch shooty over to here
safe.
Looking good now.
I've just made a really bad mistake to show you a switch on canvas much lately in this nice easy Pressplay.
So far so good.
Right.
We're not crashing.
But look what happens when I move in.
Well that looks great until here.
Do you remember when I told you that like to dinos calculate the light from their zero position.
Not from the texture.
So what's happening is it's using the texture with given it but it's actually calculating from this
point here.
I shouldn't have moved the light to decode.
I should have offset the texture.
So let's do that let's go back into a security camera thing and let's move the position back to zero.
And now let's offset the texture.
So this texture I happen to know that I want to move this by 365 pixels wide of 365 pixels because a
little more than halfway.
So 365 puts me right here and then let's get to me now when I go back in it looks a little like it did
before against a little far maybe 365 was a bit overzealous house 360 suit you not thirty three sixty
three sixty look better.
May I say that.
360 six get less Pressplay.
Now.
The shadows are being calculated from the right place which is a lot more like it.
So we have the beginning of our camera but right now it's a street light.
We want to move left and right which is my challenge to you.
I'd like you to try and get the camera rotating left and right over a few seconds.
So in my mind of seeing like a 12 second loop.
So this is going to go left wait go right wait and loop.
And for me that loops about 12 seconds but you can tweak that and I'm thinking left by 30 degrees right
by 30 degrees so we have a nice.
What would that be a 60 degree arc.
I can't see that my head but there's a few different ways you could solve this.
Suppose the video when you're happy with the results unpause it and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
Okay.
There's a couple of ways you could do this.
You could do this in code you could use something like a tween node or a timer and move from there.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to use the animation player because that means I don't have to play too much with numbers.
I could just plug it in and it'll work.
So let's go to a security camera and as a child of camera body weight camera body needs a collision
shape is this particular shape.
In fact the collision shape
right now it doesn't matter what this relationship is but it does need to be there.
So let's just give it a rectangle.
Doesn't matter.
No colliding with it.
OK.
Now I promise back to it.
What are we doing we are doing an animation player.
There we go.
Okay I wanna make a new animation.
I they call this security camera scan scan left and scanned right.
And I said what 12 seconds and I'm feeling two second steps that feels good.
What's going to do.
It's going to rotate.
Camera body and because camera body is a child of security camera.
It'll rotate and work fine.
I'm going to put player detection on the camera body.
What I need to do is create a brand new track.
So I just need the rotation.
I don't need scale on location.
Make that key.
And let's zoom out of it's excellent day.
I'm thinking of the first two seconds you should be to the left.
So rotation degrees minus 30.
But a key two seconds in repeat the key.
It's going to take two seconds to get the centre two seconds to get to the right.
So at the six second mark I will go 30.
Pick a key and eight seconds.
Make a key.
That's all I need to do now is just to loop it and auto play it because if it's looping it's going to
take four seconds to get back to this position so let's look.
See alagoas.
I looking pretty good.
And then it loops back and it'll just keep going for.
Great.
So now we save that.
I press play.
We have a working camera that has lights that update.
And give wonderful shadowfax Couple of things I want to do.
First off the player is very dark.
If I make the scene any darker.
The players not police able to see their own character.
So let's fix that is going to player make a light to denote.
And what I want to do is I go into my graphics folder into hitman and I only use the player's texture
as it's like map.
So now we press play.
The player can see themselves.
Not bad.
As a couple of other ways we could do that but I quite like the solution because the players like map
is the same as its texture.
It will only light things that are in there and a like them by that colour because the only thing that
can enter the play is itself.
That's great.
One more thing we need to do.
We've started playing with collisions.
Let's set up some collision layers.
It's a good time to do so in project settings going to scroll down to see today physics and it's make
some black names where one player layer two walls Layer three is gong to be security cameras.
Now there are more layers we'll be using later but I'm not going to put them in yet.
Let's not get ahead of ourselves.
It's designed for what we need rather than what we think we might want later.
Very quickly let's put things in the correct light walls.
Start there on the tarmac for walls on a collision maps.
They are not players.
They are walls and they can interact with players.
Players know how to play a scene to make sure that I change all instances of player and make sure I'm
on the actual player node because that's where the collision information is on the physics body to me.
You are a player and you don't interact with players you interact with walls.
Why don't you interact with players.
But checking if I put in something else and forget to change its collision layer this will mean that
I walk through it and I should be able to spot that.
Finally save that security cameras on camera body find the collision there is.
You are not a player you are a security camera and you don't bump into anything.
Looking good.
Pressplay.
Check out a slip on the walls and I can walk through the camera.
I can walk through the camera.
Awesome.
One thing you'll notice is that I'm shedding light through the camera not only my shedding light through
the camera.
The camera is clipping into the wall.
Let's fix that.
I will make a brand new folder so I'm gonna make a new note hoodie.
As a child of the level I call it security cameras.
Let's rename security camera security camera one and put it in.
Drag it in.
And now this is effectively a folder.
So on the do is move it above walls between walls and play it right there.
Finally let's check that we're actually going to rotate properly so I'm going to switch off the canvas
for a moment just disable it.
I need a copy of these cameras at a few different angles make sure the rotation works or duplicate a
camera move it to down here.
That looks good.
Transform it rotate by my wrist 90 degrees that's put you right here in the centre.
Duplicate one more of these rotate that by 90 degrees in the positive and put you there.
That looks good.
Should I switch to my canvas modulate Let's do that real quick.
And how's this for an atmosphere.
Look at that.
Awesome.
Again.
Only in the video I said that we're all making this an area to day but that's actually the wrong thing
to do and you could see here have changed it to kinematic body today.
Let's explain why why change it back for now.
Well is my area today.
OK.
Area to me camera body is going to get a script and that script is going to extend when herriot from
the character script.
So if I open a character script you'll see why that's important.
Here's my character script.
And you'll see at the top extends kinematic body today.
Now we can do things like this right extend character and that's fantastic.
When all you've got is a type of node.
What this means is it has access to all of the functionality of that note.
If we look in closets and we type in kinematic body today.
Other top people will see inherits can mattick what he inherits from a physics body which inherits from
collision object which inherits from note to see if On the other hand we check area to Dean.
They are not closely related area too deep would have to be the next one down from kinematic body and
it isn't.
Which means we can't set up script inheritance we want to script inheritance because the whole point
of this character Judy is that it's a template that every else extends from to fix this in our camera
with a right click on it.
We're going to go change type we're going to select kinematic body tuti now and put the script in It'll
be able to access all of the stuff that kinematic body to do nodes can access.
And that brings us to the end of the video.
We've done quite a lot of good work to get us into a great position for future videos.
We've created a brand new mpac with extended the character script but not the character scenes so that
gives us a lot of flexibility and we've paved the way for play the action not only that we've got really
atmospheric moving lights in our game.
So awesome work and I'll see in the next video.